hey big hello from portland oregon
welcome to another episode of b2b
marketing and more and in this specific
episode i want to talk about linkedin
marketing
and the blog and i have a very very
special guest steve kearns he is the
head of a blog in social media marketing
for linkedin marketing solution steve
welcome to my show thank you so much for
having me pam i'm so excited to be here
today
so steve i know that your title is ahead
of a blog and social media marketing so
can you tell us what do you do actually
for linkedin obviously it's a blog in
social media but i think it's a little
bit more than that so can you elaborate
long story short one of the
best or common questions that i get is
how does linkedin make money i get it
from friends i get it from family i get
it from even some folk who work in the
b2b marketing space the primary way that
linkedin makes money is through our
native advertising solutions
got it which we call linkedin marketing
solutions so that is our primary revenue
stream at linkedin in addition to a
number of other software as a service or
sas businesses like linkedin recruiter
linkedin sales navigator and linkedin
learning but again primary mode of
revenue generation is through our native
advertising programs and that is the
line of business or revenue stream that
my team supports because you're writing
blog are you writing pay blog or it's
basically organic blogs that talking
about linkedin's products
organic blogs primarily in addition to
social media communications across owned
channels and then also any web content
marketing program so that includes any
top of funnel programs that show up
across our linkedin marketing solutions
microsite
my team is really there to sit across
those three functions so again blog
social media marketing and web content
marketing to create top of funnel and
middle of funnel content marketing
programs that are really priming the
pump for
sales conversations when folks are
talking to our
reps on the phones in terms of why they
should be building their brand on
linkedin but then also for advertisers
own learning journeys so as people are
figuring out how to advertise on
linkedin my team's
primary goal is to make sure that they
have the tools and the resources through
our blog our social media properties
through our web properties as well they
have the resources to be able to do that
and to be able to succeed with linkedin
advertising so i was doing a little
research before i interview you
and i know you just completed a massive
project which is consolidating like
several regional marketing blogs to kind
of like global marketing solution
destination
can you tell us
the story behind it why do you guys
decided to centralize and also
how do you go about doing the
consolidation because i was in the
global world for a long period of time
and it's very very hard trying to
balance that headquarters needs versus
the geography's needs
and i totally understand a lot of time
at the geo level they want their content
that's specifically tailored for the
cultural and language differences so in
terms of consolidation how do you go
about it and how do you balance that
when i first
took over our blog properties on behalf
of linkedin marketing solutions this was
about a year and a half ago we had four
different blog properties on behalf of
our marketing solutions business so we
had a north american blog we had a uk
english blog we had a french blog and we
had a german blog oh wow not really
built with any rhyme or reason built
essentially based on the demand and the
priority audiences our business had it's
like grown organically exactly
there's beauty in that at the time
because it allows companies to
scale and flex and meet the needs of
their audiences but over time we
realized is as we
you know it's a funny phrase that we'll
say a lot at linkedin is what got us
here won't get us there
i like that statement it's something
that our executives say all the time
when we think about okay great this
worked for the last five years but now
we actually want to create a centralized
experience for our advertisers to
understand how they can best use
linkedin and where they go for anything
from thought leadership to you know
activation focused content so we had to
take those four blogs they were all
hosted on different platforms in
different languages and roll them up
into one global blog so i remember when
my boss took me through this project and
said hey steve like you're gonna be the
one to do this i was like
no thank you i don't want this not for
me
you know
i'm busy enough why do i have to do that
exactly and this is something that we
kicked down the road
for years we knew it's something that
had to happen we knew it was something
that was going to be a huge value out
for our audiences but it was such a
technical challenge we wanted to make
sure that we had the right people in
place to do this we had the right
resources to do it how do you do the
migration and what are some of the big
steps
that you took to make it happen and how
long did it take
to actually eventually to the point like
you can say you know what i won this
battle or this is like considered done i
would say end to end the project took
about between six and nine months so six
months for the actual execution runway
nine months for the end to end planning
to optimization to reporting on success
to think about what were the main
components of this project
again when i first approached it it
seemed like an insurmountable challenge
task absolutely daunting task exactly
like how do we connect all of these
disparate audiences different content
pillars content strategies et cetera and
what we got down to was well hey this
actually gives us a really unique
opportunity to be able to
reset the direction of our content
strategy reset the direction of
our content program and our audience
offering so we did a couple of things
the first thing we did was a technical
and content audit so we looked at all i
want to say it was 6 000 posts like the
four different blog sites right exactly
and we wanted to look for okay number
one
what is the traffic data
definitely what posts are performing the
best um what is not performing well are
there any core themes we can identify
i agree people have been creating
content across a number of different
themes across a number of different
regions for years like what are the
common threads that we can find in terms
of what could carry over to our next
strategy those components we also looked
at what is performing from an seo
perspective we wanted to make sure that
we were not
jeopardizing our
seo performance yes so you don't kill
your seo score if you will yeah exactly
so you know this audit i would say took
about one to two months and that was
just looking at traffic data well six
thousand blog posts and then you do a
content audit in about eight weeks i
would say that's a huge success and
that's actually moving pretty fast yeah
it was a very very fast experience i
would say we definitely did it with some
partners so we were able to bring on
someone to my team who was an expert in
seo and web marketing who was able to
spend 40 hours a week dedicated
specifically to this project and we also
brought in an agency so we worked
specifically with top rank marketing
yeah
and the team over there is wonderful to
make sure we had the right tools in
place to do that that analysis and the
right
heads in the room the number of hours we
needed to get that across the finish
line so it was certainly a group effort
may i ask one more question about the 6
000 blog post you probably killed quite
a bit of them
what is the percentage of the blog posts
you end up keeping killed about 60
percent of our blog posts and kept about
and out of that 40 how many categories
did you end up creating we started with
about 100 different
topics and those were actually
externally facing topic tags so when
like a marketer would go visit our blog
they would see 100 different things
which
is a terrible experience
that's terrible right you need to
actually have build a taxonomy to
actually solve that problem so where we
landed were
four key pillars and within those four
key pillars at the maximum 21 different
tags they were all focused on like
several different lenses so the first
lens was
linked in advertising exactly that's
bread and butter right so you want to
make sure you have one pillar focused on
that that makes a lot of sense to me
exactly and we looked at verticals so
what are the different verticals that
our business services where people would
need to you know be delivered bespoke
content so you know healthcare financial
services technology marketing et cetera
et cetera to where again we were going
to need dedicated places for those
marketers to go to learn about what's
relevant to linkedin advertising and
what's relevant in their industry and
then we also looked at macro trends
that was sort of the other lens that we
looked at what are the trends going on
in the world of work that we have
proprietary data on that we can share
with you what about diversity equity and
inclusion yeah
what about the jobs landscape for
marketers looking at
the different things that we can comment
on at a thought leadership level that
don't necessarily have to do with our
product and don't necessarily have to do
with a vertical but they have to do with
hey our target audience our marketers is
it jason c
what's interesting is
we were really worried about
the backlash we were going to get when
we sunsetted 60 of our content
internally like you i think you were
very concerned about people is gonna
like you know what this is not
acceptable and you are killing the
content you are killing seo and so but
what was the reaction
the threshold we used was very uh
very
minimal honestly i think you
got very minimal pushback had several
reasons can i just analyze that please
first of all you did extensive audit so
people understand you did that and the
second thing is you were able to
identify pillars that people can
resonate
and the ones you have peeler identify
and everybody agree with that they were
like okay so anything that
don't fit
that doesn't fit into any of those
pillars you should kill it that's a
natural thing so
i think once they agree on pillars
everything else is a very very natural
path absolutely and then third i really
like that you identify tagging the
keywords if you will or the editorial
topics for each pillar i like that a lot
i think that's a very structured way of
doing it
and that makes a lot of sense to me and
you mentioned the four pillars one is
linkedin advertising and then the other
one is vertical by industry and then
third one is thought leadership or
marketing trends type of topic what's
the fourth one by any chance and i would
say the fourth is um what we are calling
pain point specific in the same way if
you look at our products you can say i
want to use linkedin sponsored content i
want to use linkedin pages i want to use
you know linkedin lead gen forms there's
also i would say like an objective based
thought process or journey that a
customer you know someone who visits our
blog can take well it's actually two
things it's your marketing function and
the marketing objective so do you want
to build brand awareness do you want to
drive demand and generate more leads do
you want to
host an event for example
or looking at your profession are you a
social media marketer are you a content
marketer are you a demand generation
marketer so making sure that for every
vertical that our customers sit in for
every function that our customers sit in
for every pain point they could have and
every linkedin product that they look at
we have an answer and we have a content
resource for them to go visit and that
was the full stop of the project he
didn't go beyond that because we said
hey
as a marketing blog that is owned by
linkedin
we actually don't have anything else to
talk about we shouldn't be talking about
anything else that gives us plenty of
runway to be able to create content
again 21 dedicated topics when you see
21 dedicated topic it's 21 per pillar
always 21 total 21 total so four are the
like what sits across
okay that makes a lot of sense i was
like 21 times four that's actually a lot
yeah so it's only a few with an 8 filler
do you slice and dice the information by
languages as well i was under the
assumption when we first started this
journey that
most of localization from a like a
language perspective was done
via ai and you could just flip a switch
and all of a sudden your blog was going
to be translated into spanish french
and that is not the case not the case no
i am so happy you said that i'm so happy
you said that
because i talk about artificial
intelligence and multiple different
keynotes and i try to emphasize until
everybody you know the current stage of
ai is not taking your jobs away the
current ai technology is really trying
to help you if nothing else get your
first draft ready especially from
writing's perspective right eventually
maybe the ai will be so sophisticated
that will replace us but that's so way
down the road but in the meantime or in
the foreseeable future next four or five
years it's really just to help you out
right 100
and it's not like you can take what ai
created and then call it then and then
publish it automatically that doesn't
work we work on global teams at linkedin
being a marketer who
was like born and raised in the united
states i think we we always have this
like very north american and
american-centric view yeah or ufcentric
type of view yes exactly so this was a
really interesting project in that you
know i went into it thinking you could
just flip a switch and you would have a
blog in six different languages and what
i learned was you actually have to have
the entire site translated maybe you can
get the first step through via ai but
then you have to get it qa'd and checked
by it native speaker
music in my ears
what the recommendation came out to was
well if you want to have a site that's
dynamic in
six different languages or four
different languages you have to have
this like
wildly sophisticated resourcing mix to
be able to pull that off and pull that
off well so we said we are actually not
ready to offer that we cannot offer that
because we don't have the head count we
don't have the
budget and ultimately
or the model to optimize it exactly it's
very expensive right and we don't even
have the
mandate when it comes to from a business
or revenue perspective to say all right
we're going to put 10 people against
this so they can maintain a blog in six
different languages so what we said was
instead we're going to create a global
english blog so we're going to take that
uk english blog in the north american
english blog we're going to merge those
two and then we're going to create
content hubs which basically look
exactly the same as our blogs they're
hosted on the same platform we're going
to create content hubs that are
localized specific to languages for that
do you actually have a local team manage
it or that's done by the central yeah
that makes sense so what we used to have
is it used to be this like very strange
partnership between my team and their
team where you know
between global and local where we have
no language skills we're just like the
gatekeepers for the channel what we did
instead is instead of having a french
blog and a german blog we had a french
content hub in a german content hub so
when you remove the word blog you're
actually kind of removing that
expectation of okay we need a newsletter
we need a publishing cadence you have
much broader and a wider arrange of
content formats not just a blog by
itself or just a pdf yeah by doing that
what it allowed us to do is we said okay
you know right now we only have content
that's localized in french and german
but there was also interest from our
spanish and our brazilian and latin
american teams to localize in spanish
and portuguese so we said okay we
actually have a model for you now where
you can maintain your own content hub it
looks exactly like a blog
but there is no requirement around
publishing if you want to publish once a
month relative to the needs of your
market you can yeah
we don't want to stymie you from doing
what you need to do in your market but
we also want to make sure that if we're
saying this is a blog from linkedin
that that has a certain promise
associated with it this has a publishing
cadence which is five times a week has a
newsletter it has a
find content strategy around it around
you know what is the promise that we are
delivering to our advertisers or the
value we're delivering to our
advertisers
when you say content hub does that mean
that the majority of content being
created in a headquarters level and then
the local content hub can pick and
choose which one they want to use and
localize is that somehow the approach
that you are going after yeah
that's the majority but then there's a
second subset of content that looks at
entirely like regionally driven
initiatives so for example things that
like we wouldn't do event coverage posts
in region
yes that would be their job yeah exactly
business moments that matter in germany
that would not matter in the united
states like those are things where they
will take the lead and say hey like you
don't even need to work with our team we
will do it ourselves we know we know our
regions well so can i also ask one more
question yeah my experience working with
the global team along with my experience
engaging with enterprises as my
consulting projects
and what i have noticed and including
myself when i was in the corporate world
is majority of the content that's
created say that at hq level it can
naturally flow down to the regional
level but a lot of times the regional
specific content and i know that
multiple different regions i work with
in the past they will push their content
to hq and try to scale that to a
different region i found that very
difficult to do do you run into that
issue as well yes we definitely do i
mean i think it's challenging when and
we haven't cracked the code yet on how
to get this right i don't think anybody
did i'm not kidding and i work with many
global enterprises it's like
it's always one-way street come down to
the content distribution to a regional
level right i try to push some of the
content regional level up to the global
level and then from there to
scale down to a different region i found
that very difficult to do
and i think the only thing we've done
that's been successful in trying to
keep that two-way street like you were
talking about pam is
aligning on what core themes and you
know content pillars are going to be so
we said hey this year we're going to
talk about two things we're going to
talk about brand trust and we are going
to talk about professional identity
those two topics are what we're going to
talk about everything that falls within
there is fair game
once we get there and once we have that
alignment on a global level it's very
easy to say all right apac team or latin
america team or a mia team
you take this project and you run on it
you lead on it and pull us in when
you're ready to go global then we know
we're all singing from the same hymn
sheet so to speak and that the content
is going to be globally resonant so even
with that
that guidance or the guardrail has been
set up by the headquarter team does that
make sense
the headquarters teams will identify two
or three themes and that's to make sure
that's common across all regions what i
have done in the past is some of the
event content for example like when i
was working with china sometimes they
have a budget to pull a very heavyweight
speaker
either somebody is very well known like
you know the alibaba ceo you know jack
ma for example
excel and then they have an interview
and they have a great discussion and
that kind of information because he's so
well known and it's very easy to pull
that information from the content hub in
china and then scale that across two
different regions but i like your
approach in terms of identify couple
theme
preferably is a thought leadership and
it's common thing that can apply across
regions if they take the lead of course
you can take some of that content and
upskill at a global level and then scale
that to other regions i like that a lot
very smart it's definitely an ongoing i
would say conversation because
you know at the end of the day the the
whole idea of one size fits all is very
tough so it's the question of how do you
create enough of a strategy that
is malleable so that it can translate
across different regions of the world
where you know you look at like
economic climates political climate with
the public health crisis we have going
on
all of that informs how your marketing
needs to show up and how you can handle
your messaging strategy what you should
say is a brand especially a brand the
size of linkedin
we also want to make sure to leave
enough space that
you know the regional experts can you
know
be experts in in their market and and
lead messaging strategies that are going
to make sense to their audiences versus
you know what may resonate with a
marketer in new york city
that may not make a ton of sense to a
marketer in singapore
i hear you
so you know it sounds like you got
a lot of things right when you are doing
that migration and leading the effort
now looking back
what are the one or two things that you
look back and say you know what if i had
to do this over again
i would do it completely differently i
would say pre and post migration metrics
so
one of the challenges we have especially
at a large company but i think this
happens across any sector or size of
company is that when we migrated from
one platform to another
that then throws off the tracking on
everything you essentially lose
visibility for a given period of time
yes i 100 agree and also you have to do
this 301 redirecting and all that stuff
it's incredibly tedious incredibly
tactical so i would say you know one of
the things we've recently discovered is
that a lot of the tracking mechanisms
that we used to employ
are no longer working and have to be
rebuilt so you know i think there was
something where there was the
physical appearance of the blog
which went pretty flawlessly and then
there's the behind the scenes which
again
it's hard because we know as marketers
that metrics are very very important and
those are going to be things we look at
quarter every quarter year over year et
cetera but
we tended to give priority to the visual
appearance the user experience of the
blog because at the end of the day if
that's a mess
it doesn't matter what we're tracking it
doesn't matter you know and perception
is reality anyway exactly so i think
what we what we could have done a better
job of is when the migration happened we
said boom okay we're done the new
platform is live
it's a success it looks beautiful people
are really happy with the new experience
where we should have started asking
questions a little bit earlier like even
before we actually flip the switch was
okay well what's going to happen
when we flip that switch on the
performance you know we're probably
going to see a dip how long and also all
the tracking that was in place what is
the impact yeah i hear you and then
especially at a big company the question
is around like how do you manage those
expectations because once you learn
about that
it's like wayne has a big tip and the
manager was like what's going on i don't
understand
exactly now we are in the process of
rebuilding those tracking infrastructure
which
is definitely time-consuming i would say
it could have spent some more time in
advance thinking about how we
how we were going to manage that i hear
you loud and clear but we don't know why
we don't know you know what i'm saying
like all of us that have been doing this
for a long time even though i managed
data migration for my own blogs at least
four times four times i redid my website
four times wow
not including the first time but you
know just redoing it four times and
every single time i always have a
problem in terms of tracking the
tracking no matter what i'm trying to do
no matter the web developers how much
time they spend on it it's always just
because it's technology and there's so
much data and when you do that migration
there's always glitches
there's not much you can do about it i
come to realize they are just glitches
every time you do a technical migration
like that you learn something that's
because we are not technical but now you
go through it one more time next time
you do it you're like okay back in you
know all that nitty-gritty details we
just need to make sure that everything
is lined up right exactly it's kind of
like a design for a machines
we know what that will look like and we
know the functionality of machines but
we don't designed it exactly yeah and
then once you are in the trenches of
designing it you will not know like how
everything connected together
i hear you loud and clear but i still
think you should pat yourself you know
thank you on your shoulders and
basically say you did a great job thank
you i know how hard it is i help my
clients do uh data migration from time
to time i always tell them you know what
we're going to do this two or three
times the first time is going to be a
disaster everybody just expect that okay
just expect that
exactly and we did it about three times
yeah i'm not surprised for my data
migration it was never successful ever
the first time never
it's as simple as migrating my contact
list i cannot even get that right the
first time it has to be like second or
third time not mentioning you are doing
like 60 of thousand that's what three
thousand posts
exactly i want people who listen to
understand that if you ever do any data
migration you have to manage it you have
to manage you have to manage the
expectation and also expect it you have
to do it multiple times a hundred
percent
thank you for sharing the whole
experience with us that's fantastic i
love it
never miss an episode of b2b marketing
and more by following us here on youtube
and leave a comment while you're at it
you can also find episodes wherever you
get your podcasts
[Music]